today's talk is really about
how addictions are tied into who you are
there's no playbook for addictions and
so what happens is addictions kind of
prey
on our particular psychological
vulnerabilities
and our own issues that we can
accumulate throughout life
and so if you really want to understand
how to take control of your addiction
it's not about watching a video about
addictions it's about
learning about yourself and as you grow
as a person
as you develop as a person as you
understand who you are that's going to
be ultimately the most important thing
that will help you become
sober and stay sober
um with that first of all thanks for
coming on
thank you and um can you tell me a
little bit about uh
you know like what what what i should
call you today
my name is noah noah okay and then
um and noah what and what what
what do you want to talk what are we
talking about today or or anything i can
help you with
um i don't know if there's anything you
can help me with but
honestly i'm trying to come in here and
honestly
it's an honor to contribute to your to
your i guess you would call it a
movement right now
so i'm just trying to talk about
whatever might be relevant to
other people dealing with substance
abuse okay
uh i guess we could start because i'm
really curious about
how one would determine if they are
addicted to something or not
okay sure yeah
um and what how do you tell if you're
addicted to something or not no
i don't [ __ ] sorry can i swear i think
so
okay i don't [ __ ] know dude so i have
in my story uh there's three primary
substances
nicotine like cigarettes pouches the
like
uh cannabis and alcohol
okay and the problematicness
of each of those is always different um
and so medicinal i have my medicinal
cannabis card
and that is a substance where i really
struggle to know
am i getting medicinal benefits from
this or
am i an addict rationalizing this
through a government paywall
does that make sure absolutely man so
like i'm
very curious about that okay can you
tell us a little bit about
um can you just tell me
okay let me just think about this for a
second how to approach this conversation
so do you um do we ask about background
first or do we
yeah let's talk about background for a
minute and then we'll we'll get to that
get back to that question okay
so um can you help me understand a
little bit about
uh you know have you had problems with
any of these substances in the past
yeah they've all kind of caused problems
but with me personally i'm not sure if
it's the substances
that are causing problems or if i am
just a glutton
you know what i mean can you help us
understand that
well i i recently sorry my jacket is
like messing with me
i recently hit rock bottom if you could
call it that
with alcohol and um i reached out to a
lot of my family
who i come from a family of alcoholics
let me tell you and they had
beautiful advice one of them being
hey noah watch out but during your first
week of uh
withdrawal from alcohol you're gonna get
a sweet tooth like a mofo so
uh i mean i was
eating a lot of sweets in the past
couple weeks or so but
even before i discovered alcohol before
i discovered cannabis
or nicotine um i was a huge spender
like going and getting dozens of donuts
and just eating them all myself
just chasing that dopamine kind of thing
and so that's what makes me think
perhaps this isn't a substance thing
maybe this is something in me so it
almost sounds like you're kind of
referring to like an addictive
personality
yes yes oh one second
no problem hello
yeah sure okay
can you noah can you center your camera
oh yeah
i i think maybe they're talking about
height
is there some way to to yeah yeah there
we go
perfect yeah okay let me just
yeah i'm not gonna check my discord
messages is is that good
okay seems like it's good because he
hung up um
so and and what what
what do you mean by rock bottom
it's hard to say because i was black out
drunk when i hit it man
um what do i mean by rock bottom
so my rock bottom was on a sunday okay
and before this sunday there was a
thursday where i also got really drunk
um on this thursday
i had a really good night with you know
me and my roommate and we were just
chilling and she wasn't drinking
but maybe 9 p.m rolls around and i start
drinking
and i drink a little too much and so out
of nowhere
i'm just vomiting in the bathroom and
i'm super embarrassed
and my roommate has to like look out for
me and it's this horrible thing
and the next day i'm like yo i'm so
sorry i promise you i'm not an alcoholic
like i just got a little
twisted yesterday and i i hope you know
that this is not something that's going
to happen again
because last year i also had problems
with alcoholism
so that's what happened thursday and
then my rock bottom
on sunday man i don't even remember
because i took i i remember getting home
from the liquor store
and then the next morning waking up
still drunk
while i'm at work i text my roommate
like hey what happened last night
and she just responds with you need help
and that oh man oh man
it's a hard thing to digest because you
don't even know what you're digesting
i'll tell you though i never cried as
hard in my life as i did that day
because i did what what did what made
you
cry why were you crying i i'm not one to
reach out for help
um i'm a very figure it out myself kind
of guy
but um that monday i
texted everyone i texted my mom
my older brothers that both dealt with
this
my dad and it's not weird for me to come
out and be like hey i think i have a
drinking problem
it's not weird for me to do that
especially given the fact that
literally everyone even my little
brother has this
issue but reaching out
and saying hey i have a problem and i
want to stop this
that was hard to admit to myself i feel
what made it hard to admit to yourself i
never thought i would have this problem
i didn't start drinking until i was 19
now i'm almost 24
24 in 13 days and um
here i am dealing with alcoholism
okay um what makes you think you have a
problem
with alcohol in particular it is that
that's an amazing question why do i
think i have a problem
with alcohol because the way it makes me
feel i never drink and feel
proud of it as a matter of fact i drink
and then i want to drink more
and then i'm constantly trying to drink
more and i never really
got a grasp on the concept of moderation
especially with alcohol because alcohol
turns you into a person that doesn't
moderate things
i i had to recognize that me personally
i
i can't get carried away by that and how
do you feel when you have a drink
the first drink is always relieving um
what does it relieve
it does two things it makes me feel cool
and
it relieves me of anxieties and
responsibility i guess i would say
because i'm gonna drink
when it's either in the face of this
essay i gotta do
i'm too stressed out so i'm just gonna
down a shot and then boom i got
the looseness to engage in this activity
yeah i rationalized it now i
i don't do nicotine or alcohol but i do
continue with my medicinal cannabis
but my rule is i don't do it when i work
not when i'm doing essays not nothing
not right now
um and i've liked that that's really
vibed with me
okay
noah so i'm going to ask you kind of a
quick question about um
so just what you want to get out of this
conversation
and every time you know we have someone
on stream i know that a lot of people
kind of come on to help our community
and
movement or whatever and that's
wonderful that's why we
do this on stream but i i know it sounds
kind of weird but in my mind i actually
don't think about helping our community
when i talk to an individual
what i really focus on is helping that
one person because this is
one chance that we have over the course
of our lives
where you know two human beings are
meeting for like an hour or two
and what i'd really like to understand
is like
how i can help you in this moment
and i kind of have two thoughts
okay um one is that like we can have
sort of
a personal conversation where i ask you
about your history
you know we kind of dig into like why
you're a figure it out myself kind of
person i think that's going to be a
really important
part of your personal journey you know
your self-reliance how it's like
difficult to
reach out for help i think it'll be like
a more standard sort of stream maybe
a little bit emotional catharsis maybe a
little bit of tears
you know like all the the standard stuff
that you know
people will feel connected to you you'll
you know there's kind of that standard
stuff
the other thing that i'm noticing is
that you know it seems like you have
particular
questions and experiences and so the
other direction that we could do is a
little bit more academic
um so so like for example we could talk
a little bit about
here just the the things that we could
talk about so like you know the
biological nature of addiction
and it's like hereditary kind of nature
um
you know addictive personalities how do
you know if you have a problem and like
what makes an addiction
it's all these are also gonna be like
semi-personal conversations
but i'll have basically like some
teaching to do
um you know like this idea of addiction
and moderation being like an
alien thing uh this idea of like
you know the first drink is about relief
and loosening yourself so that you can
be normal
and then the problem arises because
that's never where it stops
um you know i think that word looseness
that you said is a beautiful word
because it really encapsulates like what
a lot of people experience
there are also kind of these things
about like it's not going to happen
again
i'm not an alcoholic the rules that we
come up for ourselves so what are the
things that our mind does
there's this broader issue of like you
know
yeah so so i think that there's a lot of
stuff that you've gone through that i
think is like widely applicable and if
you
and it really comes down to you like
what do you want do you want to try to
do
a more emotional exploration of your
past or do you want to try to
map out like what addiction could
potentially look like and see what boxes
you check
yeah well there is something i do want
to get out of it but i'm
really scared okay i'm
really scared can you i think yeah yeah
yeah yeah
um help me understand that oh
here's what i'm afraid of dr k i'm
afraid of coming on here
being honest about my history
my habits and i'm afraid of you
telling me that i might have a bigger
problem than i realize
okay when i say things like oh i'm still
using medicinal cannabis
but i don't know if i'm addicted or not
to that you know so
things like that are in my head and i'm
really scared to talk about it but i
think we should
i think we should okay so let's okay so
let's talk about it
so what would it mean to you
if i said noah i think you have a bigger
problem than you realize
i don't know why it's a little relieving
to hear you say that actually
is that weird no that's why i asked the
question
yeah because like i was searching like
oh man do i feel
yeah sorry so so let me just illustrate
what we just did there okay so you have
a fear
okay so like sometimes in life like
we're afraid that someone is gonna say
no or someone is gonna say yes like
we're afraid of a particular outcome
and so our mind instinctively like
withdraws from it right and we don't
face it we run away from it
so the the first thing to do is not to
answer the question
or not to say noah you have a problem
and push you into that fear
if we want to overcome this what we
really have to do is understand
what it is that you're afraid of what is
the impact
what does it mean for your life if i say
noah
you gotta give up cannabis you are
addicted
right like what is the impact like any
time there's a hypothetical in our mind
that we're trying to avoid
the first step to facing it is figuring
out what is it truly that we're trying
to avoid
so what if i told you no i i think you
have
a bigger problem than you realize what
would that mean for you
it would mean that you are affirming
something that i had suspected
for a long time and what do you suspect
i suspect that i gotta be totally clean
straight edge
no substances not even caffeine you know
that that's always like been my ideal
and yeah
strength that idealized it's always hurt
me kind of
yes so i know this sounds kind of weird
noah but
i don't need to hear anything else
because i i agree with you
and here's the reason why i think you
probably need to be totally sober
that's my instinct right now and the
reason is because i trust you
it's not about what i say it's about the
things that
you kind of know like it sounds to me
like you know
huh i don't trust me i know i understand
that you don't trust you but i trust you
how does that work because i don't trust
myself
to make the right i don't trust myself
to identify my characteristics
accurately
i understand that you don't trust you
but what i'm saying is
i trust you but that sounds like a
fallacy how could you possibly trust me
you don't know me
do you know yourself no no
no okay so then why why would you say
that that
then neither of us knows you and so why
would you weigh
yourself i mean then it's a wash right
okay okay so
just as valid for you to trust me as it
is for me to distrust myself
yeah and here's here's the reason i
trust you because i think that like
generally speaking i understand how
minds work
and i think that you are going through
this process
of coming to terms with what you have to
do but deep down you know what i hear is
not that you're
ignorant it's that you believe something
and you're resistant to that belief your
resistance
to the consequences of what you already
know that's what i'm hearing from you
consequences of what i already know
okay now i'm curious now i'm thinking
about
why am i so resistant against this
exactly that's the right question so
then the question becomes what does it
mean to you to give up everything
to give up everything that's a difficult
yeah yeah yeah go for it okay
sorry i'm like trying to think you're
not my regular therapist so i'm trying
not to like get tunnel visioned in on
you i want to like keep this uh
like uh applicable to other people
but could you repeat the question
sorry yeah so what like when you say
there's a part of you that's like if i
tell you you have a bigger problem than
you realize
then what are you afraid of you're
afraid that you have to give up
everything right like you have to give
up marijuana you have to give up
caffeine like
you have to give it all up and then the
question becomes
what's what does that mean for you like
what is that
practically why you know obviously it's
going to be difficult but like
what what do you resist about doing that
oh i i resist
i resist the the pleasure that it all
brings me
and caffeine is an interesting one
because
caffeine is the wrench in the in the
system because
i tell myself like out i'll get a red
bull in the morning
and i'll hate myself for it but then a
part of my mind will be like why are you
beating yourself
up so much about this you're crazy for
being so
anti-caffeine and then that makes me
question
the validity of wanting to quit anything
because i'm like oh i'm this is just my
social anxiety this is just my
self-deprecation
being like oh you gotta be a junkie
because you're just a shitty person
and like do i need to quit caffeine
and therefore do i need to quit alcohol
do i need to quit nicotine
does that make sense yeah what kind of
person would you be if you had to quit
substances
this isn't gonna make sense this is like
a personal thing i'm saying to me
but i would be the man i imagined when i
was a good
christian little boy uh
i i was incredibly religious up until
freshman year of high school
and um i mean
i i think these feelings of wanting to
be straight
edge are coming from this little sixth
grader that thinks he's gonna get
all his answers from the bible uh does
that make sense
sure makes wonderful sense
yeah but to answer your question even
better i think i would be a
pretty decent person um
okay what's wrong with having a red bull
in the morning what do you say to
yourself when you have a red bull in the
morning
my heart's gonna hate me in a couple
years for this
you know and and also there is validity
to it because i drink red bull
and then i feel the palpitations in my
heart and i'm like i know i shouldn't
feel my heartbeat right now
this is not good for me so
you know i i do feel valid in saying
things like that
so i'm kind of hearing you noah being a
little bit stuck
yeah boy so so let me ask you something
how do you feel about not being
religious anymore
i think i made the right decision i
think um
yeah so i think indoctrinated
so i i kind of see like i think this is
becoming actually a little bit clearer
to me so like
i want to just point out to you
this is going to be hard but so let's
just think about using a substance so if
you quit substances
in a sense you're going back to like
your pre-ninth grade self
like you're a good little christian boy
and there's a part of you that
recognizes that leaving be like letting
that good little christian boy go
is part of your growth so in a sense
quitting substances
is going back taking a step backward
like you become
back into the indoctrinated sort of
thing because when i asked you like
you know how would you feel if you gave
up substances and you're like
i feel like i'm a good little christian
boy again
and there's a part of you that doesn't
want to be that inappropriately so right
like you kind of grew out of it
so the first thing is that and this is
where there are a lot of things that
your mind kind of conflates and mixes
together
and then so that's one side where where
you know you almost
go back to being a good little christian
boy which is something that it sounds
like you probably had to work hard
to get away from that place in the first
place
and then there's also you know all the
christian motifs of things like
alcoholics anonymous and
and things like that which can kind of
reinforce um
you know some of that thinking and then
the other problem is that
you know if you continue doing
substances you kind of
you know if you if you give up
substances you also sort of like give up
some of your personal growth
in a weird way like that's what i'm
hearing oh
that's so true yeah yeah what do you
mean by that what's so true about that
i mean i'm i'm thinking back to all the
ways i used substances to help me
especially in um i'm a linguist i i
study spanish
and especially in uh my
social anxiety and learning spanish and
exposing myself to different
ways of being marijuana has really
helped me
in amplify certain anxieties that
under the influence of cannabis i was
able to finally grab
and then understand and then in my sober
life i was able to process them better
um so it was a very growthful
thing uh these substances
alcohol and nicotine though and so i
think on the other side of the equation
you know it sounds like
you are very um judgmental towards
yourself
for using substances
so how do you feel about drinking red
bull
i think it's not necessary i think i do
it for the identity
when what identity is that i used to be
really into parkour like stuntman kind
of stuff
so i all throughout high school i would
like
steal mats from the gymnastics team and
practice my roundabouts with a red bull
that i got from the local gas station
and [ __ ]
it was like very nostalgic memories i
have with red bull in particular
um so yeah that kind of thing i i guess
i'm kind of like
missing that ambitious little kid that
was doing backflips in the gym when no
one was looking
let me just okay yeah so i i know
what i'm really hearing from you is that
substances are like
tangled up with your identity right
not just the red bull but also like sort
of like the being the good little
christian boy that there are a lot of
like
parts of you that even anxiety i mean
marijuana helped you understand about
yourself so like
it feels to me like substances and who
you are
kind of get tied together what do you
think about that
i i think you're exactly right there's
also i have a thought that's very loud
in the back of my head that i'd like to
voice
about the good christian boy thing uh
because maybe this can
enlighten you about my addictive
personality
but my first this is embarrassing
this is embarrassing but kind of
innocent because i was in middle school
my first ever addiction was to
masturbation and
uh it was essentially that you know
hating myself
so much for watching porn because i was
a good christian boy right
that uh my struggles with dealing with
what i felt like was a masturbation
addiction that's
why i renounced god as a freshman in
high school
and it's so silly to say
out loud wait wait help me understand
that what you renounced god
because you're jerking off dude i was
so beaten down by the guilt of jerking
off that i was like
[ __ ] these rules man like i i don't
believe in this god [ __ ] it's gonna
allow me to jerk off and
that that was that okay
i stopped going to church so what i'm
sort of hearing is that you figured it
out yourself
you know you're not going to play by
anyone else's rules that's not the
response i expected
why do you say that i figured it out
because i felt like that would be a bad
thing what i did
what would be a bad thing i perceived
my masturbation habit as an addiction
and then
i pursued that addiction as i saw it as
an addiction
instead of being a religious man
and from the perspective of the man i
was
i had committed the ultimate sin
yeah so but i i also so here's what i
understand
where you're coming from because that's
how you felt at that time
but if we think about you know someone
leaving a religion that they were
indoctrinated against at the age of 13
that sounds to me like someone who is
letting go
of societal conventions and
kind of living by their own rules
i don't really resonate with that okay
to be honest i i feel like i missed an
opportunity back then
uh i feel like i missed an opportunity
back then to conquer my addictive
personality
because even today do you regret it do
you regret it
absolutely so now now you have to be
really careful noah because what i'm
hearing you fall into
is a very common trap that people with
addictions have
which is that if there was a fork in the
road many years ago and if i had taken a
different fork i would not be where i am
today
okay right it's kind of interesting like
we all do this where we say like oh like
it's not just people with addictions
right it's sort of like the one who
you know if you let the one get away you
kind of think back
oh that was the right relationship for
me like i let them get away i shouldn't
have done that
my whole life would be different today
they do this really interesting thing
where like instead of solving the
problem that you face today
you go back to the past you rewrite
history through fantasy to create a
hypothetical present
rewriting the past through fantasy
is a huge thing i do it
is that a symptom of addiction or is
that something like everyone does
no it's it's something that um you know
i call it the fantasy trap
and it's sort of like this weird sort of
the three dimensions to it from kind of
a neuroscience and psychological
perspective but like
it you know it's it's just something
it's sort of like a coping mechanism
that keeps people stuck
and because what happens is you're like
like so if you're in
the present and you're facing a
situation like let's say you're trying
to figure out if you're addicted
if you really think about it that's a
really difficult question there's a lot
of challenges around it you have to
maybe give up things you don't want to
give up things
and so your mind does that plays this
really interesting trick it goes back to
when you were 13
and then it says if you had done this
then imagine where your life would be
now and then you think about how easy
things would be
how wonderful things would be and then
an hour goes by and your life hasn't
changed but suddenly the question of
being an addict is like disappeared from
your mind
it's kind of it's a weird sort of coping
mechanism it's not exclusive to
addiction
but i i do see it happen in addiction
yeah yeah that's really interesting um
and so because at the end of the day
like your mind is not thinking about
solving so if you think about like
literally what your
you know mental energy is being spent on
it's not being spent on
solving the issue of whether you're an
addict today your mental like literally
the thoughts in your head are devoted to
rewriting history and then like you run
out of mana
and there's this weird fantasy about how
things would have been different and
then like you don't actually make any
change in your life
because your mind is not thinking about
what can i change today it's thinking
about
how today would be different if only i
had dot dot
yeah i do that with a uh i don't know if
this is the same thing you're talking
about but with my social anxiety
i do that a lot too where it's like oh
this interaction
when i was a child like really
traumatized me and if i had said
something differently then i wouldn't
carry that trauma from that event
you know absolutely so i think this is
where like
you know it's weird but your mind
focuses on
but that's it it's hard to say but
that's a completely unproductive way of
thinking i'm not trying to like shame
you or anything but i'm saying like
literally technically that does not do
anything for your present problem
yeah right so in fact on sunday and then
not going to the grocery store
just i'm getting fat food i'm sorry can
you say that again
it's like creating a meal plan being
like yeah i'm gonna get my life together
exercise every day
and then you just don't do it yeah you
know absolutely fancy
yeah so you're just thinking you spend
all the time thinking about everything
that you're going to do and then end up
not really doing it
but let's kind of go back to um
let me just think for a second so what
so
do you think you're addicted to alcohol
do you identify as an alcoholic
really but i do see a problem between me
and alcohol
and what i don't problem i i
i drink and i don't stop you know i
don't drink frequently
um before it was like maybe
four times a month i would drink uh
four or five times a month i would drink
but every time i drank
it was like rolling the dice man you
really don't know
if i'm gonna clean the entire apartment
or cuss out my roommate
and that [ __ ] was really scary um
yeah like like my story with the
thursday sunday kind of rock bottom
thing like one day was really good
and it was like don't worry you threw up
it happens we all get a little too
turned sometimes
and then the next day being like you
said some
really shitty stuff last night you need
help
because it came out of nowhere um that's
why i have a problem
what's your problem with that
um i recognize that alcohol is something
that
if i touch i need to surrender that i do
not have control
i need to surrender my control um
or it's inevitable that i am
surrendering my control
because i can't i cannot look back in
hindsight on all the horrible [ __ ] i've
done while
drunk and then say oh if i had done
something different
i can't say that instead it's like you
were drunk
that's on you that's on your drunk self
don't let it happen again
and yeah so that i think is a great way
to tell if you're addicted or not
right so i think that's sort of the
nature of it like so the first question
that you asked me is like how do you
know if you actually have a problem i
think that's a beautiful way to describe
it
and i think the issue is that substances
you know they affect our mind
and either we're in control of the
substance or the substance is in control
of us
and what i'm hearing you really say is
that like you
you know you kind of give up you kind of
put things on autoplay
and like like once you become drunk noah
like and this also has to do a little
bit with sort of like consciousness and
mind and things like that i think that
like
there's a part of you that is aware
right and so it it healthy game we try
to cultivate like awareness of the true
self
which is actually outside of the mind
and anytime you
you use a phrase like blackout drunk
what i'm hearing is that your mind is
technically operating right because
you're still doing things you're saying
things things like that
but there's no awareness and so it's
actually a beautiful example of like
complete oblivion
of awareness and if we look at the road
to enlightenment it's actually in the
opposite direction because the goal of
like moving towards enlightenment
is to cultivate our sense of awareness
that exists outside of our mind
and our body um okay can you elaborate
on that you lost me
in how both of those
things are outside of the mind but i
missed how enlightenment is
the opposite spectrum so if we think
about blackout drunk so like right now
you're thinking right so earlier today
you said this beautifully
you were like i have a loud thought in
the back of my mind so if we think about
what that
statement means it means that there is a
part of you that is observing the action
of your mind
you you don't say i have a thought you
say
i have a thought in my mind which
implies that your mind is an
object and you are outside of it
like i have a pain in my hand this isn't
me
it's my hand i have a crack in my bottle
i am not the bottle
this is my bottle you're using the
possessive
to imply that the mind is something that
you own
does that make sense which in turn means
that you are
not your mind because you can notice it
the same way that you can notice the
fingers of your hand
but if i lose my hand it would be a
tragedy because i couldn't play games
anymore
but i would still be me right the
meanest would exist
so and if we think about like what
meditation does what meditation does
is help helps us strengthen
the eye outside of mind so as we become
awareness as our awareness of things
grow like this is when we tell people to
take a step back right so i'm tortured
i'm all upset because i've gotten dumped
by my girlfriend
and then my friends tell me to take a
step back and when i'm able to take a
step back i suffer less
i begin to see things more objectively
my life gets better you know
and so the road to enlightenment is all
about
separating the awareness from the mind
and cultivating that sense of awareness
okay like um like i am not my thoughts
rather the vehicle for such
uh i don't know what you mean by vehicle
but like
i'm the thinker of my thoughts i didn't
want to say a thinker persona
yep good i'm the thinker right so i am
like the
the liver in like isn't the person who
lives
within my body i'm the per like so there
is a sense of you
that exists outside of mind and outside
of body
because your body changes your mind
changes but you remain the same
right there's a person like you used to
be three years old
and then you were a nine-year-old good
christian boy and then you were like a
rebel parkour person and now you're like
someone who's sort of like grappling
with you know who you are and what your
worth is
and during all of those moments there's
a certain noah-ness
that transcends each of those individual
fluctuations
certain knowingness now is is that where
i want
some work to go figuring out what that
knowingness is
yes because that's where you're all
tangled up because even when you were a
good christian boy
you were still noah and when you were a
bad christian boy you were still noah
and before you realized you had a
problem you were still noah and after
you realized you had a problem you're
still noah
and and this is where like you know you
judge yourself a lot for being a bad
person for drinking red bull because
you're screwing up your life
and i would venture that part of the
reason you're beating yourself up is
because you know four years from now
that you're going to go back to the
fantasy trap and regret all those red
bulls of your drink
and then you're going to be telling
yourself if i had not drank all those
red bulls
then i wouldn't be in this situation and
then you really really hate yourself
because like
even now all of those fantasies that
you're going to be thinking in the
future
you can't fix them now i know it sounds
if i just lost either
but like so now in regard to my
substance abuse
i think i have a lot of fantasy traps
that i escape
through substances like um
sorry um i'm trying to think of what i
want to say
how much i want to say it it wasn't easy
growing up
in my household uh and
i think i have a lot of fantasy traps
about
things that happened in that house and i
think
i escape those traps with
substances does that make sense
yeah i think it would help a lot if you
could provide an example but if you
don't feel
comfortable i think that's totally fine
yeah well i was talking to zack about
this yesterday
uh when i was like how
i have theories for why i struggle with
substance abuse
um i don't know if you're familiar with
the attachment styles by
pool heller i think i'm a very anxious
ambivalent kind of person
which means um for stream like my my
caregivers my parents were very on and
off
like you cannot expect my mom to provide
affection or hatred at any kind of given
moment
and as such it was really difficult to
have a consistent spot where i could
really breathe
and enjoy myself it was
instead it was always like a constant
okay what do i got to say to keep mom
happy okay what do i
where do i go to avoid to stay away from
mom you know like
[ __ ] like that and
if we're talking about fantasy traps man
i i fantasize about
what i would have done if i was a
stronger kid that would have stood up to
her
and i hate myself so much for not
standing up to her that i drink
yeah and what what is it what does it do
for you
when you drink it makes me stop thinking
about it because
otherwise i'm i'm a very vote that kind
of mind i can't stop
um even at the end of the day like after
i finish my homework i'll lay in bed and
i'll be like [ __ ] i should be working on
that freaking
art project or whatever so um
and it's the same with my trauma like
the trauma never stops i never stopped
thinking about it and i never stopped
thinking about
how much better how much more productive
i would be if x y and z
didn't happen to me so that's why i
drink
yeah so what i'm noticing is that you
know this idea of the fantasy trap
um is is feels really really relevant to
you you notice yourself doing that a lot
and and so this is what i enjoy about
these conversations so just um
i'm gonna just send you a quick dm after
we're done with the call
um but i i have some other thoughts kind
of about the fantasy trap and things
like that but
um so and
if i if i don't dm you just please dm me
to remind me okay
okay um so i i want to just point out a
couple of things
and and one is so we've kind of kind of
got another fork in the road here which
is like do we go down the fantasy trap
route or do we go down sort of like
stick with addictions and trauma and
whatnot
um okay so i think that
you know the key thing here is that if
we think about what alcohol does for you
or substances is that it quiets your
mind
right it helps you forget it reduces
your anxiety
and now we kind of get to your question
about like
um you know do i have to give up
marijuana
i have a medical reason for it and i
think that
you don't have to give it up but i think
it's the same thing
and what do i mean by that so like if we
think about the function of medical
marijuana or even a medically prescribed
medication like a you know
pharmaceutical medication
for acute anxiety what its aim is to
calm the mind
right so like whether you use alcohol to
calm the mind whether you use marijuana
to come
calm the mind whether you use lorazepam
or klonopin to cl
calm the mind all of these are
artificial substances that are used
to reduce your emotional like negative
energy
right so then the issue is is not one of
like whether it does that or not it's
just an issue of like
where on the spectrum it is so
you know as medical professionals we
sort of acknowledge and admit
that there are some addictive substances
like marijuana
and things like xanax that we prescribe
to people
to relieve the emote artificially
relieve the emotion of their mind
now alcohol does the same thing for you
it's just alcohol
hurts a lot more causes a lot more
problems
and so this is where you know there's
kind of like
i i'm not i'm kind of
very simple in my mind about this that
there's like a spectrum
you use all substances to relieve the
the emotions in your mind
even who people who don't have a
drinking problem still do the same thing
right like if i go to happy hour after
like a long week at work and i kind of
like decompress
i'm still using the substance to like
mentally
relieve me in some way so that's what
substances do
it's just where on the spectrum does
each substance lie
and this is where like do i think it's
healthy if you stop smoking marijuana
absolutely do i think you're ready yet
probably not do i think you need to be
ready right now
probably not and i think it's a journey
right so when we think about addictions
it's like you start with the biggest
problems first
and then you don't have to make a
commitment to be sober from all things
including caffeine today
and and this is also where like you know
the fantasy trap is kind of like
it tricks us into thinking that we have
to be perfect that's the real problem
with the fantasy trap is that
you know you have these thoughts and
then you think if this had happened
everything would be amazing today and
that's not
even if that was the case like that's
just not how life works like everything
wouldn't be amazing to it's just not
you know you gotta like you can't go
from level zero to level ten you gotta
go like level one level two level three
level four level five
and in your case what i'm really hearing
know is that like it's time to really
focus on alcohol
that's gonna have its whole own host of
problems because right now you have a
lot of emotional energy
around being sober the challenge is
gonna arise when like
you know a month from now
you know i haven't asked you this
question yet but what was in your mind
when you went to the liquor store
always in my mind when i went to the
liquor store
well for one i was already drunk um
horrible mistake don't drink and drive
what was going through my mind god i
just wanted more i just wanted more
relief
from what i have no idea what goes
through your mind when you purchase
alcohol and you're sober
i'm thinking about the imagery of
taking the drink i'm thinking about how
cool i'm gonna feel when i have like a
glass of whiskey with some ice cubes in
it
um i'm just thinking life will be better
in a couple of minutes that's one thing
that's the dangerous thought okay
right because like that's the moment
like that so people always think it's
like
like that that's the so here's the
here's the real challenge noah like a
month from now
like right now you're like filled with
shame and you're filled with i gotta do
it and i gotta grow and i gotta be a
better person
i'm gonna talk to dr k i'm gonna learn
more about myself
it's gonna be great we're on this
journey of growth man we're on this
journey of growth
together and then like over time the
emotional energy from the shame of your
roommate kind of messaging you or
whatever like that's gonna start to
dwindle
you know the messages between your
family like they're all supporting you
right now like this is a problem with
like support from other people
it comes like a torrent instead of a
drip
right it comes like a flood and we we
can see this a lot when like when
there's grief it's like everyone's like
oh my god
like or i see this a lot in people who
are diagnosed with cancer
where like for the first month
everyone's on board
and nine months into chemo no one's
around
and wait you said nine months and no
one's doing chemo or no one's supporting
no one's supporting the person who's
doing chemo like everyone's there
and they're like yeah like i'll cook for
you i'll do everything and then nine
months like
no one's around to take people to their
appointments no one's around
like it's tough that's horrible
it is hard are there like volunteer
groups for like
uh sure there are all kinds of
you know systems in place to help those
people medical professionals being at
the top of the list right because
obviously we're still around
but i i just want to kind of point out
that even like when someone passes away
it's like you get a thousand messages
when someone hears that you know someone
passed away
and then a year later when it's their
birthday like it's crickets
right and and so you're gonna get a
bunch of support you have a bunch of
emotional energy
but over time i just think about this no
like emotions don't last forever
right so you're that emotional energy
that motivation the emotional motivation
is gonna wane over time
it's gonna decrease and then a month
from now or two months from now or on
like
august 4th you're going to be like oh
man
feeling good is just a few moments away
yeah and the shame is going to be far
away then
yeah well i don't know because it's so
interesting what's happened in the past
week
because i have felt so proud of myself
for well okay it's been hard
since quitting nicotine and alcohol
i've been like a neurotic mess dude like
i'm walking around the house like just
having like these little mini screams of
like pent-up energy that i just cannot
release now
um and uh but it just feels so good
um i don't know if this is something i
should expect
to dwindle but i get a lot of
fulfillment
um on monday you were talking about and
i'm wondering if my dharma right now is
to
get clean yeah yeah so
so absolutely so this is where there are
some things that will sustain you right
because
like like people are sober for years
and this is where i think if you're if
this is a dharmic pursuit
that will sustain you if it's an
emotional pursuit
that won't like if you're quitting
alcohol because of the shame
like what i'm hearing is that you know
you got a text message
from your roommate and they were like
you need help and it was like
shattering and grand and profound
and you realized that's all like
that's all gonna dwindle yeah but
taking confidence and being fulfilled
about
you know like moving your life in the
direction that you want it to go
that will absolutely sustain you in fact
that's what you need that's what's going
to fight off
the i'm moments away from feeling so
good
i'm just mere moments away from feeling
so good
dharma can fight against that absolutely
yeah
is the only thing that can fight against
that yeah right
oh because i i have thought in the past
like i've tried to get clean in the past
and i've had these struggles before and
i don't want it to be like
oh i'm just on the hype train i'm
getting all emotional
but you know man i've seen that this
really fulfills me in a profound way
when i exercise discipline and impulse
control
so yeah so i think those are those are
positive i think the other thing that
you're doing that is a very good
prognostic sign
is that you are learning to tolerate
your negative emotions
right so i hear you being a train wreck
and like
good job because if we think about it
what do the substances do for you
is they they take away you being like a
neurotic mess
right and so the interesting thing if we
really look at like conquering
addictions i think a lot of it is
being able to tolerate and withstand the
thing that the addiction takes away
because if you can survive it without
the addiction you no longer need the
addiction
and now we get to like a second
principle of like you know how do i know
if someone is addicted
everyone has coping mechanisms when the
coping mechanism becomes the only tool
in your belt
that's when it becomes an addiction
okay right so like if i have a long day
and
i decide to play a video game and like
no big deal
but when i'm having a bad day the only
thing i can do
is to play a video game and then like
the video becomes
video game becomes my soul escape
becomes my soul crutch
becomes my like dominates the avoidance
of the problems in my life
like is such a good way to avoid all the
problems in my life that's when it
becomes a problem
yeah yeah go ahead so so just to
summarize i think like
you being i know it sounds weird it's
soft you suffer a lot in the moment when
you have these little
you know you said you have these little
like screams or whatever
but i think like your ability to sit
with that ultimately is a very good
prognostic sign
about your long-term sobriety
now that is very assuring thank you it
just sucks
you know ty's gonna suffer because i'm
sitting there thinking like am i gonna
be
like screaming into my pillow for the
rest of my life like a freaking maniac
or like but nah nah that's crazy
i hope uh yeah but i i'm
so curious about uh correct me if i'm
being presumptuous but you struggled
with video game addiction correct
yeah when did you personally
if i may ask realize this is a problem
that i really gotta get under control
oh that was the beginning bro from the
first time you picked up a video game
no no no no not the first time i picked
up the video game but like i knew it was
a problem
years before i did anything about it
right and it was it was kind of like
you know when i say that there's a part
of you that actually knows you're just
resistant to it
that's that comes from my own experience
like looking back on it
yeah like i mean you [ __ ] know like
you know
right i mean like you know like when i
you know my
third week of freshman year before i
failed any classes
when i like am skipping all my classes
for a week and playing diablo like
i know there's a problem yeah like
and and that's that's actually what was
the vicious cycle is like i knew it was
a problem
i could see my future slipping away from
me one day at a time
and the thought of like watching that
future like slip away like one day at a
time
was so painful that i escaped through
video games
and then two days had gone by and now
i've messed up twice
and that shame i couldn't sit with so i
played another day of video games
and then three days had gone by the
shame increases
the need for video games increases and
every step i take
i get deeper and deeper down the rabbit
hole and like
i'm i'm like going down a tunnel and i
can see
the light like every step i take like
the light is getting further and further
away
and the further away the light gets like
the more i like i can't
handle it yeah
oh my god sorry what my roommate just
texted me
saying i'm watching you right now i love
you so much and i'm like oh
that that's so scary how you describe it
because god damn's that accurate
how so god the freaking going down the
rabbit hole and then seeing the light
gradually just get tinier and tinier and
tinier
it it's so hard to convince yourself
that i as a man that gets drunk and
swears out the people that love him
as a man that smokes weed and shows up
to a date
barely conscious you know as a guy that
smokes cigarettes at work until he's
passing out while washing the cars
like how is that guy even worth
escaping that rabbit hole how why does
he deserve to escape the rabbit hole how
is he going to
like [ __ ] that guy man so it i
i have a question of how can an addict
develop enough self-love to
give a [ __ ] about themselves i i feel
like that's a flawed question though
why is it a flawed question i think
self-love is missing the point
because i think it's i think it's more
like
i think the point is not wasting your
life away
like you mentioned but then again i
guess that is self-love because you love
yourself enough tonight
i mean you seem like you're you're you
know exploring important territory so
just fill us
in on what you think you know ah [ __ ]
man
i this is what i was scared of because
i'm so
i do this with my normal therapist too
like i get so
anxious of like am i talking about the
right thing right now
yeah um uh could you direct me a bit
assuage
my sure so let's let's start in a place
that will potentially ramp up your
anxiety i'm going to ask you a weird
question
so i'm getting i'm getting a little bit
of of like a mask
from you noah so you seem really really
authentic
but you also seem just a touch fake to
me
oh for sure for sure um
yeah i i've dealt with social anxiety
all my life being a yes man
that's something that i'm very recently
getting over
um i think i got that from my mom you
know
i love her she's a much better person
now what part of you is being fake with
me
do you mind if i sit with myself nope
not at all
i'm being fake to compensate for my fear
of being seen as crazy
um i really want to come off as someone
articulate
and someone that has their [ __ ] together
but also at the same time i'm admitting
that i have all these issues
and it
it's
noah how does it feel to have all be
someone who has all these
issues
feel like i'm not ready to accomplish my
dreams
[Music]
and that's scary going into your last
year of university because it's like
oh man if i may like interject a little
anecdote
when i was 19 i i dropped out of college
to
to teach in honduras for a year i was a
volunteer third grade teacher
and i
loved the fact that i was a teacher but
i hated
how shitty of a teacher i was
um and it was actually in honduras that
i
started drinking man i'll never forget
the day after i got drunk for the first
time i i was just like
looking at the trees and i was like my
brain is completely different now
i vividly remember that
but anyway um going back to substance
abuse like i thought i was a shitty
teacher i was like a stupid 20 year old
and then coming back and developing
these substance abuse issues i feel
again like i i'm not ready i'm not ready
to graduate college
i'm not ready to look for a job i'm not
ready to
to to have a girlfriend
i'm just not enough
yeah that's how it works so it's it's
cool
like i i think um that you know even as
you say all of that
i still see that as being part of the
mask so i think there's a lot of genuine
i know it's weird i know it's weird
we'll just follow me okay
so i asked you a question i i noticed
the emotions came up and then your mind
did this really interesting thing where
you're like let me tell this anecdote
let me kind of talk about it
and then like i think everything you
said was genuine
but it was also like away from the
emotions
yeah i i did kind of like right right
away from it
yeah and and so a lot of stuff is going
to come together okay so like there's
there's interesting because a lot of
times when you talk about being a shitty
person
you actually don't feel like a shitty
person and when you feel like a shitty
person you actually don't talk about
being a shitty person
just in in terms of this interview so if
you look at your
emotional level you can own
a lot of negativity about yourself but
you do so in sort of like a very like
inspiring and positive way
would like to do it but is that the
fakeness that you're seeing i think so i
think so
so so like what we call this is sort of
discongruent affect
so affect is what your in what appear
what your emotional appearance is
yeah and like you know this is like a
good example of discongruent affect is
when people like laugh about you know
getting cancer
it's like that's not funny but we all
laugh about it right
and so so i i think that no you
genuinely made a lot of progress but i
i'm
getting somewhere here with this okay so
what i'm hearing
underneath everything is that like
you're a crappy person
right like you're afraid that you're a
crappy person you're a crappy teacher
that's you felt so crappy and we can see
a lot of this like that it's a very good
anecdote i'm really glad you shared it
because it illustrates sort of like this
moment like this turning point once
again
your mind is always looking at those
fantasies right i bet you have a fantasy
trap about
drinking in honduras because that was
the moment where you felt
such like such a bad person and alcohol
was there for you
right see now we have affect now this is
genuine
it hurts right yeah
okay all right
so yeah this is this is what affect
looks like right so like
right i should i should go with this
feeling
like it it's yeah i feel like i'm trying
to be professional right now
yep even asking the question is not
going with the feeling you're like what
am i supposed to do with it
right it's it's so like it and it's
become and this out also goes back to
your
you know anxious ambivalent attachment
style where like you learned a long time
ago
what other people want and boy are you
good at giving it to him
oh yeah dude yeah so i know you talk
about social anxiety but you know i
would bet money you're incredibly
charismatic
and and and like it's not a compliment
it's just you know like i think people
like you
right you're a likable guy and and so
like it's interesting because you feel
all the social anxiety but like
you know you you know how to make
friends man
like it and so this is kind of it's kind
of interesting because so i think what
it comes down to
this is kind of the veneer the mask the
protective layers that
it's not your fault you're not doing
anything wrong it was actually like it
was a survival mechanism for you and you
illustrated that for us really well
um i think you're incredibly insightful
that's a compliment
um but i think you've you've really laid
out like all the
what i think are important pieces that
get us to sort of this conclusion which
is that
you know you think you're a crappy
person and you are asking me how do i
learn
self-love well like the first most
important thing
is that you have to so how do you learn
to accept yourself
you have to be taught and the simplest
way to be taught how to sell like how
does anyone learn anything
how do you learn spanish okay yeah you
taught
right right like so like how do children
learn language how do children learn
like how to put on a mask like they're
taught
in some way or another so and now now we
get into the real problem noah that i
think you know this is where you really
need to work
which is that if you want
if you want to be accepted by other
people if you want to learn
self-acceptance you have to start by
being accepted by other people
and the real problem is i don't think
you're going to truly get accepted by
other people because there's this veneer
of positive [ __ ] on top of
everything you're saying
right like like it's kind of weird but
like
you know you're so like i'm gonna become
sober and you're like owning all these
negative things but it's like incredibly
inspiring
and so when people like look at you they
don't see
a waste of space they look at someone
who's
amazing and walking their journey which
is what you want to present
which is what you succeed at and now
that puts you in a really tricky
situation okay
because if you never show us the ugliest
parts of you
you show us the ugliest parts of you
wrapped with beautiful bowstring
and and flower you know framed
positively and stuff like that
but like those really like ugly little
bits
that are not about growth just just give
us the pure ugliness
and then what you need to like that
vulnerability
is gonna like like when you show us that
which i think from a young age you were
like taught that you can't do that
because
you know the anxious avoid ambivalent
attachment style
it's really hard but you have have to
let us
see you in all of your ugliness and
that's really dangerous because we could
reject you there and like you can't
handle like you're not ready for that
but something magical will happen which
is that when you show us that
we'll be okay with it and then you're
gonna be really really confused and
that's even more terrifying
that is so true oh my god let me tell
you when people love me and i don't
expect it it's
[ __ ] weird it is so weird
god if my roommate's still watching she
is a perfect example
of just like i will say a thing like
maybe i
dude in the discord shout out to your
discord your those people are amazing
i typed in the discord and sorry this is
uh this is a tangent
um i i typed in the discord like is it
rude to ask
my uh
is it is it rude to ask someone to not
call me a simp and
everyone was like what the [ __ ] no of
course not and i was like wait wait wait
she's always joking about it and they're
like no if you don't like being called a
sim
just tell her you don't like being
called a sim and so i tell her i'm like
hey can you like not say that and she's
like
okay but in my heart does that thing
where it just like
jumps you know it like occupies two
beats instead of one
uh it it's freaking crazy sorry about
that jesus you hit the nail on the head
with that
what and help me understand which what's
the nail that i hit
when you said if i show all my ugly bits
um yeah y'all might reject me but also
y'all might accept me and then i'm gonna
be confused if y'all accept me
yep and and that's that's because like
so the reason you're confused is because
you don't know how to accept yourself
right so it's like a foreign thing it's
like we're giving you like a new kind of
food
right so it's like feels unfamiliar to
be accepted for your ugly bits
like when when and what i'm hearing from
the simps story it's a good story
because it sort of
signals that like you are telling
someone else that you're dissatisfied
with them which means that they may not
like you
and will trigger a lot of social anxiety
and all that kind of stuff so it's like
it's really challenging for some people
to stand up for themselves
and and so when you do that you know it
feels weird when
the person is sort of like yeah okay
fine i won't do that
you know did they apologize yeah oh of
course she did
she was like what okay i guess
but yeah it was funny yeah and and how
do you
feel when people mistreat you noah
i forget which personality test i was
taking but one of the questions was
um when i have a bad
boss i am a bad employee and i like
strongly agreed with that
uh to answer your question when people
mistreat me dude i get angry
i i get angry i get into fantasy i don't
know if this is a fantasy trap
but i do have the problem of arguing
with people in my head
you know like if i want to have a
conversation with someone
i will practice that conversation in my
head like i i've practiced this
conversation for like
hours in the past week since i sent in
my app for this uh
interview you know what does it do for
you when you practice that conversation
it will i expect
the correct answer to be
nothing but what it does what i feel it
does for me
is it validates perspectives that i
could provide and it gives me a little
test run of
okay how might they react what is
something
really challenging that they could say
that i could now think about and prepare
myself for
and it's this really weird
objectification of conversation
i get you so here's the here's the issue
there is that like
all of those lines of reasoning that
you're following all those hypotheticals
are for what goal
to be faith absolutely good
sit with that for a second yeah
but
one gear isn't turning right now
because i do this so often because i
want to have the right conversation i
want to converse correctly
yep and you're so good at it because i
asked you a question
and guess who got the answer right
you're so good at it right and you know
where i'm going
you know where i'm going you're good at
this job bro
how are you you're very slippery
noah because you know you know how to be
what i want you to be
now that's interesting you say that
because i i wanted to come into this
conversation trying to be as honest as
possible
because that's something i i also wanted
to be as concise as possible but i
kind of failed at that um so here's the
problem
this is why this is going to go on for
add infant item
and the reason is because i the problem
isn't what's at the end of the statement
the problem is the beginning of the
statement
i wanted to be dot dot dot
it's not i am dot dot dot
any time you say i want to be something
that's gonna
engage the fakeness
you said something on monday that i
think might pertain to this
or maybe it wasn't monday you said um
when you have a goal
when you are motivated you may engender
this
fantasy this at the end of the road kind
of fantasy
you have don't strive for that fantasy
you need to just go you just need to go
in that direction
um so now now i'm thinking how can i
apply that to not being fake
you know how do i not imagine a person i
want to be with you
how do i simply be with you
yeah so so so how i want to be
genuine yeah
doing it again that's wrong so
i just be genuine no
you don't just be genuine you just be
can't have anything on the other side i
just be
okay let's try that out i don't know how
neither do i but
ah [ __ ] man okay but i um
if if that little tendril is
concluded can we go back to how someone
might determine they're
addicted to something and like poly
substance abuse
because that tendril is not we can
certainly talk about that but that
tendril isn't concluded that was
starting okay sorry that was me doing
that thing again where i'm like
what might he want to talk about yeah so
so you're slipping away because we're
entering territory that you can't give
me what i want
you see that like it's like boom like oh
just b
oh i don't know how to do that let's
talk about something else
[ __ ] man i got more practice ahead of me
than i thought
yeah see look oh look at look at how
look at how much you're learning
and you're owning how much you have to
go look at how positive you are about
all this
oh man man oh man
i guess positive yeah right so so now
real emotions are coming out you're
feeling embarrassed you're feeling like
you're doing a bad job
like that's where that's what we want
bro
okay okay right so i gotta i gotta
yeah don't don't keep on resetting
yourself man
it's the wrong direction you're like
okay
no that's what we that's the opposite of
what we want don't like like taking a
breath okay i'm gonna
i'm gonna use my coping skills now it's
okay just just be
be bad today you know like you don't
need to be good
oh my god you see like i can see like
it's so uncomfortable for you to sit
with that
oh my god i mean if you say so [ __ ]
there we go
all right um yeah where do we go from
here
i'm not sure i'm gonna need a second did
i push you too hard
no i need a second too thank you for
i'll take a breather with you
i'm gonna check chat which i've been
fighting the urge to do
no i think i think they love you for
calling me an [ __ ] i do too
boy do i feel put in my place
no i did not mean that
would it be okay if you did
i would judge myself for putting out
unnecessary negativity what makes it
unnecessary
i think there's other words to use than
an [ __ ] like okay doc
you know the negativity would be the
same
yeah i guess right i hear what you mean
so
you see what you did there like you put
a you made it more pc
did it again the veneer there it is it's
always there
so this is this is the thing right like
so like no i
you know what you do with this so here's
the answer okay
and then we can go back to safer topics
okay so
i think huh i enjoy this we don't
need to be safe okay um
so so i think the first thing is just to
catch yourself doing it right like
you can't fix something until you
recognize like
how it works so like the more you try to
slip away and the more i try to pin you
down you're beginning to see it
and so now like hopefully you know
you'll begin to see it in other places
and and you know if you if you want to
call people like an [ __ ] and then
you're like oh i could have done it i
could have said doc like be authentic
with yourself
and and that authenticity means like
accepting that some of that is going to
look kind of ugly and that like other
people may get bruised
if you advocate for yourself and like
you have to be okay with that right like
you have and this is where
you know i i really i'm really really
glad you called me an [ __ ] there
because i think like
you know i think i did push a little bit
too far and then i think like you kind
of
it's just it's just a tiny bit right
because you're so respectful and like oh
i shouldn't do that but absolutely you
should
you call it unnecessary negativity it's
not like you know if there's one thing
you need to understand
it's that some neces negativity is
completely necessary and appropriate
[Music]
can can i say two things yeah um
one you didn't push me too far two my
biggest problem i've had this veneer
issue all my life
i i mean god i have memories of being in
elementary school and my friends calling
me fake
but any time i ever was inspired to
change
i didn't change because i was afraid
that people wouldn't
like what i imagined to be the natural
me
i i think the natural me and god who
knows
but i would just be chill i wouldn't
talk much
i'm actually quite introverted you know
and i
don't have many things to say um
but i imagine myself in that kind of
state and i'm like
look at this reticent little [ __ ]
just sitting there thinking he's better
than everyone else you know
yeah so
there once again we see a flavor of like
self-judgment
and like putting yourself down for being
what you are right like if we
you ask the question how do i learn
self-acceptance it's the opposite of
what you do to yourself right now
because you have this inclination to be
something and then you call yourself a
reticent [ __ ]
so here's the main question why do they
have to like you
they ain't they really don't
so then why do you behave in such a way
where
them liking you like why does what they
like and what they want dictate
like why did you have to come on today
and be like a good guest
i well truth be told i had a lot of
imposter syndrome coming into this
i i was asking my roommate like yo am i
qualified
to be interviewed about substance abuse
um that was something i struggle with
and even right now i still feel a little
bad that we're talking about me more
than we are about substances
um because um god damn
yeah yeah i'm glad you're feeling bad
and and you're doing something that is
making you feel bad
because it's something i'm not used to
and i need to practice this
yes okay absolutely
but still there there still is the issue
that i i as a huge fan of the stream
i get immense benefit from this stream
and i want to contribute to your streams
and i feel right now that someone
wouldn't
walk away from this being like oh man i
really have a different perspective on
my substance abuse i feel like they
would be like
wow i really learned about that noah guy
and how he jerked off in middle school
you know that's what i'm thinking yeah
so so that's but but i think this is
where
no i think what people are so
the more genuine people are the more
they benefit from the stream
the more benefit happens right because
like the problem no is not that like i
mean we could talk about substance use i
could [ __ ]
lecture right like i was kind of
suggesting
but i think like the far more important
thing is that you're not the only one
with a mask
you're not the only one who you know
tries to be
what they think everyone wants them to
be
right you're not the only one who has
like emotions that are wrapped in a
veneer of positivity
you know and and so i think that like
i try to avoid chat but i've glanced
over a couple times and i think that
like
that's what they need because
the issue here is that substance use is
not like we we sort of externalize
i'm gonna plow right over your emotion
and keep talking okay
yeah yeah so if you if you want to learn
about substance use so this is the
problem is that in western medicine we
like
externalize our problems right so we say
that there's a treatment for
depression but we don't treat people we
treat depression it's like this external
lifeless thing right we say like these
are the treatments for
depression they're not treatments for
you in my experience as a substance use
clinician
is that ultimately like substance use is
something that interacts with who
you are the pattern of your judgments
the pattern of the veneers and the masks
that you put on
the patterns of your own sense of
inadequacy it preys on all those things
just like you said
how shitty of a teacher you are that's
when it started
and so we could talk about substance use
as a separate
academic thing but i think the main
takeaway here is that like your
journey to fix substance use if there
was a playbook for substance use you
could read that playbook and it could be
fixed
there is a playbook for creating a
valheim dedicated server i just have to
read it and i have to copy it verbatim
it's one to one that doesn't work for
substance use
and why not it's because there's an
individual in there
and that the challenges that you face in
substance use
are going to be like dependent on who
you are as a person
it's gonna have to do with your anxious
ambivalent and attachment style
it's gonna have to do with the fact that
like fundamentally when you were growing
up
you were not taught self-acceptance
because of the your attachment style
that's what it comes down to
right all of these conditions like
borderline personality disorder
and improper attachment styles they all
come down to a sense of self-worth
and self-identity you know this blackout
drunk and like
you try to run away from who you are and
you try to show someone
you try to show every everyone in the
world what you aren't
and so there's like there's this piece
of you that you think is ugly
which is could be ugly but like the
issue here is that
it's okay to be ugly
right like you don't need to change like
people can accept you for who you
are they could take it or leave it
right and like like i i know it's it
seems kind of weird but like
you're doing something that you're kind
of like you were sort of being a little
it's not your fault but you're kind of
being like just a touch fake and i know
you're trying to help people i know it's
for a good reason but
i want to see you noah i don't want
i don't want to see the person that you
think i want to see
i don't want to see the person who's
going to help the most
that's why i said like every
conversation i have to forget about the
thousands of people watching
i have to be here just for you and i'm
willing to take you
however you are if you're a shitty human
being so be it
that doesn't bother me i can handle it
you still deserve to be here even if
you're not good enough like there's no
there's no good enough
we're gonna take you for who you are
like i'm
that's all i want i just want you like
whatever you are
if it's broken if it's flawed if it's
beautiful
like it doesn't matter to me just give
me you
okay dog
oh man you said something that that
piqued my interest and now i'm
forgetting what it was
um it is whatever
god damn i
oh yes um okay so this
this this veneer positivity man
i like the man at the end of the tunnel
of positivity i want to be a teacher one
day
and a lot of the best qualities of a
teacher
that i would imagine in a ideal teacher
are parts of my mask and that's one way
i
rationalize my mask i justify it because
the more
positive i am with you the the more
i don't want to say the more fake i am
about my substance abuse story
um but is this not practicing
my ideal version of myself because i
want to be positive
yeah so there's value to the mask but
your
struggles there's certainly value to the
mask i think the mask is justified i
think the mask is adaptive and it's
useful
i think it's fine to strive for things
but there's a difference between
striving for things
and being unsatisfied with like where
you are
right like there's a huge difference
between saying i wish i was somewhere
else
like that's the fantasy trap right it's
like we're gonna go back in time and
we're gonna rewrite history
to create like this weird thing that
doesn't exist
that's different from being in the
present and saying how can i take
one step towards becoming the person
that i eventually want to be
that's totally fine but but and i know
this sounds kind of weird but
that also starts with acceptance
because you can't really take a step
forward to being the person that you
want to be
until you accept where you are
okay going back yeah
yeah yeah
in um if one is addicted
uh you can you can look and you can be
like
is this the only tool i have in my
toolbox
when i have a bad day is this the only
thing i go to
if so then you're probably addicted
when i'm facing my social anxiety when
i'm facing this situation here
i mean my only tool is my mask
so would it be appropriate to say i'm
kind of
i'm i'm overcompensating one for my lack
of self-acceptance
uh but but two i'm addicted to this mask
of positivity i'm i'm addicted to giving
people this
positive [ __ ] yes
okay yeah but but i i think so here's
here's the thing noah so like
the journey of growth is like one step
at a time
so specifically you know i think in your
case like the first
problem is like alcohol so like it's
okay to be
it's okay to have your mask it's okay to
use marijuana it's okay to like
you know you gotta tackle one thing at a
time
but and this is where i would be a
little bit careful because you kind of
say
you know oh you're afraid that i'm gonna
say you have a problem or whatnot like
you don't have to fix everything today i
mean you're 24
you know arguably some people are gonna
think you're old some people
i think you're young you've got a long
way to go
you know and it sounds like you know i
think two years is a very long time and
you can really do a lot of good work
in that time so i'd say the first thing
you should do is if you're sober from
nicotine and alcohol like all of your
energy should be into like
not slipping back in that way okay then
you know i would really consider like
revisiting marijuana and things like
that and the social anxiety there may be
other
you know i i haven't purposely asked you
you know what you have
a medical lice like what your medical
condition is but that's fine it's
irrelevant
the the key thing here at least i mean
it's rel absolutely relevant from a
clinical perspective so
like ideally you know obviously you it
sounds like you have a therapist you
have a prescriber
those are that becomes very relevant for
them but the purpose of this
conversation is to not necessarily do
addiction treatment
it's to help because you've got that
it's to really help you understand some
of these other parts of yourself because
what i really see
your addiction as is like this is just
one long journey towards
enlightenment right and it start starts
by like
stopping the blackouts and then like it
it starts by like
understanding who you are like what is
that self
what is noah like underneath all of the
masks
because in your journey for addiction
you're gonna have to grapple with the
ugly noah
and and like the the real lesson to be
learned here is that like
it's not that all people are beautiful
it's that
it's okay to be ugly right because this
is very subtle but
if we say that everyone is beautiful
we're still placing a value
judgment on beauty we're still subtly
saying that
some people are above other people that
we value this thing
over other people and so suddenly we're
actually not being like egalitarian or
like equality it's it's actually
raising everyone to the pedestal but
still
subtly acknowledging that the pedestal
is what's important
nothing is actually changed and then you
know we get into this fakeness because
not everyone is equally like physically
attractive right
and so you can and so this is where i
think the real growth is in like
accepting the negativity accepting that
you're never going to be perfect and
that you don't need to be
you know that being flawed is okay
being flawed is okay you um
i was listening to your to your monday
stream this morning
work you said good and bad are human
constructs
that that hit me right here dude because
because like oh my god isn't it true you
know
oh man so
that is something this
application of
like accepting yourself for the ugliness
that that is something that is difficult
and i'm very curious on how to
recommend doing that because i'm
i'm not even sure what the ugly parts of
me are yet
does that make sense yes and no because
i think i think you're gonna
like like so so you know one thing you
can do is go back and
watch this and what you'll see is that
there are moments where like i'll tell
you to your face that i'm willing to
accept you no matter who you are
and then like you'll get emotional and
then you'll ask some question
so like like literally what it is is is
you know like there's a space where
you're unable to sit with it
and and so that's okay like you're
practicing city like you can sit with it
for like five seconds
and then like the next time around like
the next time you notice that you're
judging yourself
what i would say that you should do is
like
play the tape through to the end so if
you are an addict
what does that mean so what
and and this is where this is where like
if you really want to be present focused
and escape the fantasy trap what you've
got to do
i think it all rolls together is you
have to accept that you
are ugly or that you are an addict or
you are a failure or you are behind
so be it what are you going to do about
it
now right you don't run away from that
thought you don't try to justify it
you don't try to make excuses you don't
try to fantasize
we're at the bottom of the pit we can
barely see a little bit of light
that's fine let's just accept that we're
in the pit
because until we accept that we're in
the pit it's going to be impossible to
climb out
and so i know this sounds weird but like
oddly enough
accepting your negative qualities is not
like a bad thing like it's not a bad
thing
i mean i'm not saying that like because
everyone says oh acceptance is a good
thing what i mean is that it's actually
like completely fine
like it's completely fine to be like
completely worthless because that's just
what you are
like you can't you can't change that in
this moment
right if you're lost in the middle of
the woods like you have to start by
acknowledging that you're lost because
that's where real growth happens if i
sit there like i'm in the woods and i'm
like oh i wish i had done this and i
wish i'd done this i wish i brought my
gps i wish i brought a backup battery
then i wouldn't be lost
it doesn't help you at all
[Music]
to understand and this is where if you
as you really move towards like the
spiritual road it's like
it's this idea that good and bad are
constructs right so like if you really
understand it like being at the bottom
of the pit is not
even a bad thing i honestly believe that
and that's because like if i wasn't at
the bottom of the pit like i wouldn't be
here today
and is this a good thing absolutely
which necessitates the bad thing
and so all there are are just things
can i ask a question you asked me
earlier
how i feel when someone wrongs me yeah
um
and in accepting where i am i
think to the people that wronged me you
know namely like
my my rough childhood and i
wonder how i can if you have any tips
for forgiving
you know because i think a big part of
staying here being okay with these
problems
comes from it's not my fault that i'm
here it's
you know it's her fault
yeah so tips for forgiveness fantastic
question
the first tip for forgiveness is that
you have to blame someone in order
to forgive them okay
i know it sounds weird i see this holds
people back a lot
right so like when you say it's it's her
fault that's the first step forward
okay i know it sounds weird because
sometimes what people will do is when
people wrong them
they will make excuses for the other
person
and if they if the person isn't really
to blame there can never be forgiveness
does that make sense
yeah yeah dude i can't forgive you
unless i actually blame you yeah so i
know
exactly you have to say you did
something wrong
then you can forgive it's the first
problem that people run into with
forgiveness
so i'll tell you just a quick story so i
was working with a patient who
lost their mom to an illness and then
their dad was grieving and every day
after work
they used to go to like a bar and drink
basically
so they would be like at a bar from like
five to eight pm and they'd like kind of
come home dinner time
be drunk and then like my patient kept
on saying like i kept on asking like you
know tell me about your dad and he said
he did the best that he could
that would always be his answer and it
was like you know he lost his wife
and like he was grieving and he did the
best that he could like i don't blame
him for that
but what he never said is that he did a
good job
[Music]
oh my god that's [ __ ] sad dude yep
and so so like he couldn't forgive his
dad because like that
there's like a another side of the story
which is like
you know the patient was like eight and
had lost
one parent and then suddenly lost two
and like he needed his dad to be there
twice as
much right like his dad had to make up
for two
so like the patient lost two parents all
at the same time
and his relationship with his parents
his dad got better
once he blamed him i didn't do it to his
face but like he just did it in therapy
where like we acknowledged that like
and i one day i said to him i said you
keep on saying your dad did the best
that he could you never say that he did
a good job
and then once he was able to admit to
himself and accept
that his dad did a bad job then he could
forgive him
right but you got to hold people
accountable yeah i just feel bad man
because i see
i see what
i see what she went through you know
and i feel like i'm just kicking her
while she's down when i say she wasn't
good at what she did but i hear what
you're saying and i know it's
important to be honest with myself and
be like yo
hey you [ __ ] up all right like you
[ __ ] up
yeah i got a [ __ ] so
so and it's it's hard no so we see this
a lot like in addictions right because
like here's
here's the real problem like did your
mom ever do the work that you're doing
today
i don't think so i wouldn't know so
that's something that like like so so
that's the difference right so that's
what you can blame her for
i know it sounds weird but like you can
say like
i am breaking the cycle like i don't
know if you're gonna have kids one day
but you can have a conversation with
your mom and maybe this conversation
happens once you have kids and once
you're sober
and that's when you really get to blame
her because you can say like i was dealt
this shitty hand of cards you were dealt
the shitty handle cards
and i did something about it and i broke
the cycle and you did not
okay
you lost me when you said uh was she
doing the same work that i'm doing now
i was like eh i don't know how i feel
but then you were like once i have kids
once i'm clean
then i can really like that then it's
like
unequivocable unequivocal
unequivocal yeah yeah uh
damn that's that's powerful dog right so
so and this is where like the
forgiveness comes in because
you can have compassion for her but
compassion for another human being
should not get tangled up
with them not doing their dharma
okay right so that's like really really
important
huh i didn't catch that so this is
really important like
you can have compassion for your mom you
can forgive your mom but if your mom did
not do or dharma she did not do her
dharma
right so i like i can hold you
accountable like so you're
kind of slippery today right and so like
you're kind of like
i have this mask on i can have
compassion for you and still call you
out on it
like i can say like noah you're being
inauthentic with me
and i can still care about you and not
be mad at you for that
so compassion and harm are completely
separate and i think like what you may
need to do is
you know blame your mom for not doing
her dharma
because like when you're four years old
and she's like yelling at you because
she's drunk
if you want to forgive her for that you
got to start out by saying
that's completely [ __ ] up
right and this can can i tell you how
i'm feeling right now
yeah go for it i feel i feel guilty for
bringing up my mom
yep absolutely i feel really good right
absolutely so so you're protecting her
right like
you don't want so like what's happening
right now
is you're feeling bad because we're
starting towards the
road of holding her accountable for her
actions
we're going down the road of blaming her
and you're not like you're you're doing
the same thing that my patient did
he was protecting his dad he did the
best that he could
right and so what we had to work through
was a lot of guilt like when we blame
people
because we have compassion for them we
have a lot of guilt
and i mean i'm just we don't really know
what your mom did i mean maybe she
didn't do anything wrong
i just i don't know that so we also have
to acknowledge that like she may not be
she may have done a wonderful job i
don't i don't know
we don't know right so we have to
acknowledge that truth
but what i'm saying is that like if you
know if your parents messed up in a
particular way when it comes to you
and you really want to forgive them you
have to start by like
everyone agreeing that like you know
you messed up but you can't forgive
unless
you're willing to blame okay yeah
i'm glad you brought that up you
reminded me that the end goal is
forgiveness
you know i was so caught up in like
holding her accountable but i do want to
forgive her
i really do okay so so this is also
where the end goal doesn't have to be
forgiveness
okay right so now other tips for
okay um first thing is you have to blame
someone
in order to forgive them second thing is
that no one is owed forgiveness
[Music]
forgiveness is the sole right of the
aggrieved party
right if i if you break my jaw i don't
have to forgive you
i never have to forgive you it's
entirely my choice
so don't feel forgiveness should never
be an obligation
it should always be something that is
given freely
and if you feel obliged to forgive it's
not true forgiveness
[Music]
okay second tip for forgiveness should
be freely given
and is never owed and never entitled we
see this a lot
in very toxic family dynamics where like
you know huh that they think their own
forgiveness
yeah or like like so i had you know
another situation where
i had a patient who was you know trigger
warning was sexually assaulted by a
family member
and then like years later like at family
gatherings and stuff like this
my patient was like i'm not gonna be
there if this person is there
and then like family members are like it
was in the past it was years ago
like you should forgive them you know
like we can move past it
they regret what they did they have they
stopped doing it
and so i got a lot of pressure from the
family because it's like people are
wondering where you are
and we can't say it's because so and so
you know
like that's how families work right like
it's like you don't
you don't show up at a family gathering
and be like yeah i'm not gonna come
because
oh hey how are you uncle bob
i hate you for raping me and i've been
in therapy for 10 years
yeah you just don't do that that's not
how families work
i mean it's crazy but like and so like a
lot of times people get pressured into
forgiveness
people are like you know like we also
see this in romantic relationships where
like people like you know who
feel like they deserve forgiveness no
one deserves forgiveness
no one is entitled to forgiveness
second tip i feel like there was a third
tip but i'm blanking on it now
um uh let me think for a second how do
you uh
you have to blame the person no one's
entitled
yeah i i think so i think in your case
no i think it's really about like
figuring out
you know what you want to forgive them
for it's okay to love them it's it's
good to forgive i think it's healthy to
forgive
i think hanging on to like hatred and
stuff like that is not good for you but
at the same time like you shouldn't feel
like you're a bad person
if you don't forgive you should forgive
because you love your mom not because
she deserves it or that you need to
protect her
like
yeah it's also yeah yeah
it's also like sorry i was just residing
in my head
no no so i i think it's also much more
powerful like the forgiveness
on both parties means so much more when
these two boxes are met
like it's transformative
and this is nothing i would do with my
mom right
like like
would it be weird would it be too
conflict conflict-based to like
talk to my mom and being like hey you
did some shitty [ __ ]
but i hope you know i'm cool with it now
you know
no so so so i i think that this is where
like we got to do a better job of this
at healthy gamer but like we can
prep you through how to have a
conversation so we had a webinar
like back in march of 2020 about like
how to talk to people
and so we need to teach people like like
give you all a playbook for how to have
that conversation
and i think the first question that i
would start with i mean just
this is not don't listen to me here but
based on what you've said because i
haven't asked all
the appropriate questions but out of
everything that i've heard today the
question that leaps to my mind the most
is having a conversation with your mom
about her attempts to control
her alcohol
i i should clarify about my mom i don't
think it was really alcoholism
it was really just whatever other mental
illness she was dealing with at
the time that made her dare i say
abusive
um so sure so so i think it's it's like
it's like trying to understand what your
your mom's perspective is because
through that understanding you may
actually find
that like like you definitively
don't think it was her fault
and if that's if that's okay then
there's no need for forgiveness right
like
but like like i think it starts by sort
of having
like a a good understanding of what her
experience
of raising you was like
okay right so like
well here's what's going in my mind
because now i'm i'm not confused but now
i have a really difficult question in my
head
um i i firmly believe
that if i were put in the exact same
position as my mom
with all the same backstory and all the
same responsibilities
i feel like i would have acted similarly
you know i
don't feel like it was her fault but i
still believe she did not fulfill her
dharma
so so that's you know so this is where
i think like it starts with conversation
so i i wouldn't start by blaming her
unless you're prepared to do that okay
so i think like when it comes to having
conversations like
showing up and like opening salvo of
like [ __ ] you
you know and and so i i think that
that it sort of starts by like just
listening to her and then at some point
you know when you're ready
you can kind of say to her that mom like
i really feel like a lot of the
um i feel like a lot of the
you know a lot of like what happened
when i was growing up like was really
hurtful and like has caused me a lot of
problems
and there were particular times that
were really painful for me is it okay if
i tell you about them
[Music]
and and then like you're gonna get a lot
of defensiveness so that's why
there's like a way to like you're gonna
ask for permission she may not be ready
to hear it
she may be ready to hear it and then you
kind of share one story and then like
you give her a chance
to apologize right like she may say like
i
like you you'd be surprised at where
these conversations go when they're
framed in the right way like
this is also like i'm not kidding you
know like these conversations can be
truly amazing and transformative
and like they can lead to conversations
like parents being like for years and
years and years
like i let you down and i've never been
able to like
say that they're not never able to admit
it because they have their own like
and to hear like your parent like
authentically say
i you deserve so much better than what i
was able to give you and i'm incredibly
sorry for that
can like completely transform a
relationship between a child and a
parent
and it's not even about you blaming them
because you don't even have to blame
because they're gonna take it all for
themselves
and she'll be able to admit that to you
i mean
it goes i mean it's it's like i've seen
these i'm tearing up because i've seen
just
incredibly powerful like i mean it's
just like
completely op like it just wipes away
years and years of like stuff that has
not been said
yeah man i'm thinking i gotta go visit
my mom tonight
that that last part that last part
really got me
thank you for answering that question oh
[ __ ] dude
god damn
[Music]
i'm fighting the earth just say
something because my my brain is going
like dead air down here
you're right right so that that's
sitting with things right so good
good and we'll let it slide that you
said something about finding the urge to
say something but that's actually
the right level of meta so you notice it
right like you noticed it like
i think what's happened several times so
that's actually like leveling up
noah because several times during this
conversation you would just slip and now
you caught like you it's okay to slip
but at least you're aware you're
slipping now
right good god it's weird
because um
[Music]
it's weird to think that you know to
to indulge a fantasy trap real quick if
i were to just sit there
after you said that that would just like
say nothing
and be the kind of person that would
think to himself
yeah i'm sitting here doing nothing and
like i'm
just going to wait for dr k to say
whatever comes to mind or like anything
that comes to my mind
okay that's weird to me like i'm so
i'm excited for it now we get to
meditation
hey let's do it so we're just gonna sit
here and look at each other
three two one go
um
oh my god this is so hard is it
i'm loving this
this is what the introvert in me has
dreamed of my entire life
god i need a girlfriend that'll do that
with me
oh that was so uncomfortable for me i
that's that's crazy i can't believe i
was totally okay with that
so i think we did something right yeah
i'm sorry i didn't ask for your consent
first but
um thank you for that no no i i'm i'm
the one that
dumped you into it you're gonna try
again
you wanna try again we don't have to try
again now i feel like there's a there's
a pressure to do it well
we don't have i think that was perfect
okay
well we could also just acknowledge the
pressure
and then sit with that and not give into
it but
if it was perfect then that's that's
meditation for the day that's fine
well i can
oh can i ask you um
about a particular meditation yeah what
is something
that can knock me out of
wanting to relapse i guess there's no
gonna
definitely knock you out of it but i
have been doing uh
mindfulness meditation like 20 minutes
and seeing how
i feel because sometimes i'll yeah
i think it depends on what is causing
you to move towards the drink
so like i i think that the really hard
thing
is um the thing that i'm the most
worried about for you
uh noah is this thought that i'm a few
moments away from relief
so oddly enough like if you you have inc
like do you think that anxiety pushes
you to drink
um well i i want to
uh clarify a bit because i don't really
feel that way anymore
because because i i'm so good with not
drinking anymore
at least two weeks into it but um good
for you man
yeah thank you what it really is is like
nicotine
or like inappropriate cannabis use where
it's like
i'm bored and yes to answer your
question anxiousness
it's like i have nothing to do but my
mind will not
shut up so i'll i'll take a bong hit
because then i can think about how high
i am
instead of all the work that i'm not
doing at midnight
you know so if you want um
have you seen like us do like the
closing of the gates
technique okay so i'm going to teach you
uh
something called bee's breath or brahma
ibrahim and like the closing of the nine
gates
and the reason for this is simply that
this is a technique that like
explodes the thoughts in your mind like
it'll just
destroy them it's it's quite powerful
and
the reason i think about it for you is
because post technique since you enjoy
just
sitting quietly with yourself so much
which i know is something that you've
been running away from this entire
interview but i think it's it's
genuinely like i think
you'll discover that sitting with
yourself feels really really nice
so i'll teach you this technique it's
one that we do a fair amount
let me just think there's another
technique that i was thinking about
that's a little bit more
anti-anxiety
but yeah let's let's go with closing of
the nine gates okay
okay so
what i'm gonna do is um put
my pinkies at the corners of my mouth
i'm gonna put my middle finger in the
groove
uh right outside like right in my
nostril like
outside my nostrils and i'm gonna put
two fingers over here
at the it in my um it's sort of like the
the tear ducts and edges of my eyes
and then for the last bit i'm going to
put my thumbs
in here inside okay so you have the pin
of your ear
and your thumb should be behind the
pinna the pin is the little flap
okay so i'll show you what that kind of
looks like so i can't do it with
headphones on but
this is what it looks like okay and then
what we're going to do is we're going to
sit up straight
and we're going to hum like a b so just
watch me first
because if you have your thumbs in your
ears you can't hear me so i'm going to
show you once okay
[Laughter]
[Music]
okay so we're gonna buzz like a beaches
question um discord cut you off were you
humming that entire time
yep so discord is gonna cut me off okay
and discord is going to cut you off too
so um it's just because of the way that
the voice detection works
yeah so it's going to be a constant
then when you run out of breath you stop
so what we're going to do is we're going
to do five rounds
and then and not
so what i want people to take away from
this afterward is just notice what it
does to the thoughts in your mind
okay like as you hum and then but don't
pay too much attention because then
it'll shatter the humming
but you know just hum five times do five
breaths and then
sit with yourself afterwards so you can
let your hands come down
let your eyes remain closed we'll do
five breaths and maybe 60 to 90 seconds
of like silent meditation
okay
um
[Music]
so
as much as this is a tragedy you can
come on back
[Music]
that's interesting so what is
what effect do you feel on your thoughts
when you do that
i find them to be pushed aside by the
humming
okay
yeah it gets really loud after that
humming
but then i thought the impression was
you're you're uh it's not like
mindfulness where you're like
returning to that river of breathing
it's like you want to sit with those
thoughts
correct i i i don't quite follow what
what was your experience of the practice
um i was humming it the humming is
something i got to get used to but it
was
an isolating experience you know i felt
very alone
inside my head and that when i started
breathing
um you know i started thinking about my
mom the air conditioning i can hear
uh and i just observed things when you
said earlier that it's supposed to
explode my thoughts i thought the goal
was to bring them out
no yeah so so
yeah so noah you've really got to stop
trying to do things right
and instead do things the way they
happen
okay so you so so like don't ask me what
my experience is
my experience is relevant what matters
is what happened in your case
and whether it was helpful to you in
some way what's supposed to happen
if it's not helpful to you this can you
got to be careful because your mind is
going to tell you oh i'm not doing it
right
but that thought stems from
a sense of inadequacy right in a weird
way
so like the question is what happens for
you so if you've got to get used to it
if it's
uncomfortable and doesn't work for you
that's totally fine don't do it
but i would say you can practice a
little bit but the goal is that like if
you're having you know particular
anxieties
and you do the humming practice the
anxieties will be
amplified because you're going to be in
a public situation and people are going
to be wondering what
is this guy doing no but but ideally
like what will happen is the sound will
kind of push
all the thoughts away and then like
you'll just be like
lost in that sound and then like
afterward you'll kind of like
ideally be in in sort of like this calm
sort of state
yeah i i really like that like if
next time i have a craving i i know
that's gonna help a lot
you know just jostle me a bit yeah
exactly so that's that's
so jostling is actually gonna be really
that's a beautiful word
to describe a great way to get out of a
craving
so this is where like we talk about
something called urge surfing which is
to remember that like urges don't last
forever
right so like just like if you're
surfing like there's a wave and as long
as you ride on top of it
it's going to crash and you just have to
ride you have to jostle your way like
out of that rabbit hole that you go down
because like
when you have a craving it's like a
chain of thoughts right it's like
i want this it's just the right way i
can do it oh i shouldn't do it
i really shouldn't do it oh i can handle
it it's not that big of a deal
it's just this one time there's this
whole like thing and you just gotta kind
of
crack that whole jostling it up
is the most important thing so
all right yeah hey thank you thank you
so much
thank you the end of the conversation
yeah
i think i mean that's that's what i was
how does that feel to you
i'm grateful man i'm so grateful to you
are you disappointed too
i was afraid i would but you know what
this is what happened
and i'm gonna walk away different
because of this
you know so i'm not gonna i'm not gonna
be upset
that you didn't take away every impulse
i have to do drugs
you know that i do think you're a
miracle worker but i was not expecting
that
and i'm incredibly happy with this
conversation we've had
okay and so just to hammer in the final
point of the conversation
if you were a little bit upset that i
didn't take away all of your impulses
if this conversation did not live up to
your fantasy that's okay too
yes yes okay good luck to you noah
god thank you so much man i appreciate
that and um i'll
i'm gonna send you that quick dm okay
bye yeah appreciate you
thank you very much for coming on thank
you for being authentic and
and strong work man i think you helped a
lot of people today my pleasure thank
you shout out to you
oh he dropped okay